[WIP] Grad boosting (#3877)
mlpack/mlpack: doc/user/methods/gradient_boosting.md

## `GradBoosting`

The `GradBoosting` class implements a gradient boosting model that supports
numerical and categorical features. The class offers several template 
parameters and several runtime options that can be used to control the 
model.

Gradient Boosting is a very powerful ensemble algorithm used for both 
classification and regression tasks. It utilizes a series of weak learners 
(specifically [decision tree regressors](decision_tree_regressor.md)) to arrive 
closer and closer to a targeted label. Each 
weak learner is trained on the error of the previous learner, thereby 
reducing the error of the overall model.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a bit about the fact that gradient boosting is for classification here?  Here is what's used in the AdaBoost documentation (and other classifiers):

```
`AdaBoost` is useful for classifying points with _discrete labels_ (i.e. `0`,
`1`, `2`).
```

arma::mat dataset(10, 1000, arma::fill::randu); // 1000 points.
arma::Row<size_t> labels =
    arma::randi<arma::Row<size_t>>(1000, arma::distr_param(0, 4));
arma::mat testDataset(10, 500, arma::fill::randu); // 500 test points.
size_t numWeakLearners = 10;
size_t numClasses = 5;

mlpack::GradBoosting gb;                                // Step 1: create model.
gb.Train(dataset, labels, numClasses, numWeakLearners); // Step 2: train model.
arma::Row<size_t> predictions;
gb.Classify(testDataset, predictions);                  // Step 3: classify points.

// Print some information about the test predictions.
std::cout << arma::accu(predictions == 2) << " test points classified as class "
    << "2." << std::endl;
```
<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 85%"><a href="#simple-examples">More examples...</a></p>

#### Quick links:

 * [Constructors](#constructors): create `GradientBoosting` objects.
 * [`Train()`](#training): train model.
 * [`Classify()`](#classification): classify with a trained model.
 * [Other functionality](#other-functionality) for loading, saving, and
   inspecting.
 * [Examples](#simple-examples) of simple usage and links to detailed example

>    projects.

Reviewer: I noticed that we aren't documenting the `MatType` template parameter anywhere.  Do you want to add a small subsection for that?  For an example, take a look at `doc/user/methods/naive_bayes_classifier.md`.  You can adapt the section from there directly, it's pretty simple.

#### See also:

 * [`AdaBoost`](adaboost.md)
 * [`DecisionTree`](decision_tree.md)
 * [`DecisionTreeRegressor`](decision_tree_regressor.md)
 * [Random forests](random_forest.md)
 * [mlpack classifiers](../../index.md#classification-algorithms)
 * [Gradient Boosting on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gradient_boosting)

### Constructors

 * `gb = GradBoosting()`
   - Initialize model without training.
   - You will need to call [`Train()`](#training) later to train the model before
     calling [`Classify()`](#classification).

---

 * `gb = GradBoosting(data, datasetInfo, labels, numClasses, numWeakLearners)`
   - Train on numerical and/or categorical data using default arguments for the
     weak learners ([`DecisionTreeRegressor`s](decision_tree_regressor.md)).

---

 * `gb = GradBoosting(data, datasetInfo, labels, numClasses, numWeakLearners, minimumLeafSize, minimumGainSplit, maximumDepth)`

>    - Train on numerical and/or categorical data, using the given hyperparameters.

Reviewer: Take a look at how the `DecisionTree` constructors are organized---the overloads that train on numerical data are organized in one place, and the overloads that do categorical data are in another.  Can you do the same here?  Right now only the categorical overloads are listed.

Also a bit of a side note, I would suggest making variable names shorter when possible.  This makes the rendered HTML display a bit better.  So, e.g., `info` instead of `datasetInfo`.  But, that is a minor comment, up to you if you want to handle it.

---

#### Constructor Parameters:

| **name** | **type** | **description** | **default** |
|----------|----------|-----------------|-------------|
| `data` | [`arma::mat`](../matrices.md) | [Column-major](../matrices.md#representing-data-in-mlpack) training matrix. | _(N/A)_ |
| `datasetInfo` | [`data::DatasetInfo`](https://github.com/mlpack/mlpack/blob/master/doc/user/load_save.md#loading-categorical-data) | Dataset information, specifying type information for each dimension. | _(N/A)_ |
| `labels` | [`arma::Row<size_t>`](../matrices.md) | Training labels, [between `0` and `numClasses - 1`](../load_save.md#normalizing-labels) (inclusive).  Should have length `data.n_cols`.  | _(N/A)_ |
| `numClasses` | `size_t` | Number of classes in the dataset. | _(N/A)_ |
| `numWeakLearners` | `size_t` | Number of weak learner models to be used. | 5 |
| `minimumLeafSize` | `size_t` | Minimum leaf size for weak learner decision tree. | `10` |

> | `minimumGainSplit` | `double` | Minimum gain split for weak learner decision tree | `1e-7` |
> | `maximumDepth` | `size_t` | Maximum tree depth for weak learner decision tree | `2` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `minimumGainSplit` | `double` | Minimum gain split for weak learner decision tree. | `1e-7` |
| `maximumDepth` | `size_t` | Maximum tree depth for weak learner decision tree. | `2` |
```

> 

Reviewer: It would be useful to add some advice here on how to set these hyperparameters.  Up to you whether you want to take these suggestions, but I think they are right:

```suggestion
 * Smaller values of `numWeakLearners` and `maximumDepth` will result in smaller `GradientBoosting` models, but the model may underfit the data.
 * Smaller values of `minimumLeafSize` and `minimumGainSplit` will improve the performance of the `GradientBoosting` model, but at the cost of training time and model size.
```

(Also maybe `minLeafSize` and `minGainSplit` and `maxDepth` would be good shorter names that still get the same idea across.)

### Training

If training is not done as part of the constructor call, it can be done with one
of the following versions of the `Train()` member function:

 * `gb.Train(data, datasetInfo, labels, numClasses, numWeakLearners)`
   - Train on numerical data without using any decision tree arguments.

---

 * `gb.Train(data, datasetInfo, labels, numClasses, numWeakLearners, minimumLeafSize, minimumGainSplit, maximumDepth)`

>    - Train on mixed categorical data using the `minimumLeafSize`, `minimumGainSplit`, and `maximumDepth` options to control the behavior of the weak learners ([`DecisionTreeRegressor`s](decision_tree_regressor.md)).

Reviewer: Here too we should have the numerical overloads in one group and the categoricals in another (and adapt the text accordingly).

---

Types of each argument are the same as in the table for constructors
[above](#constructor-parameters).

***Note:***: Training is not incremental.  A second call to `Train()` will retrain the
model from scratch.

### Classification

Once a `GradBoosting` object is trained, the `Classify()` member function can be used
to make class predictions for new data.

 * `size_t predictedClass = gb.Classify(point)`
    - ***(Single-point)***
    - Classify a single point, returning the predicted class.

---

 * `gb.Classify(point, prediction)`
    - ***(Single-point)***
    - Classify a single point and compute class probabilities.
    - The predicted class is stored in `prediction`.

---

 * `gb.Classify(data, predictedLabels)`
    - ***(Multi-point)***
    - Classify a set of points.

>     - The prediction for data point `i` can be accessed with `predictedLabels[i]`.

Reviewer: What about a multi-point overload that computes class probabilities too?  I see it is not implemented, but I imagine it would be easy to implement, and it would be good to have because it would make this class consistent with mlpack's other classifiers.

| _multi-point_ | `predictedLabels` | [`arma::Row<size_t>&`](../matrices.md) | Vector of `size_t`s to store class prediction into.  Will be set to length `data.n_cols`. |

***Note:*** different types can be used for `data` and `point` (e.g.
`arma::fmat`, `arma::sp_mat`, `arma::sp_vec`, etc.).  However, the element type
that is used should be the same type that was used for training.

### Other Functionality

 * `WeakLearner(size_t i)` returns a [`DecisionTreeRegressor&`]
    (decision_tree_regressor.md) indicating which weak learner 
    is being used. 

 * `gb.NumWeakLearners()` returns a `size_t` indicating how 
    many weak learners are being used by the model.
    - `gb.NumWeakLearners(x)` will set the number of weak learners 
    that will be used the *next time* `Train()` is called to `x`.

 * `gb.NumClasses()` returns a `size_t` indicating the number of classes the
   model was trained on.

For complete functionality, the [source
code](/src/mlpack/methods/grad_boosting/grad_boosting.hpp) can be consulted.
Each method is fully documented.

### Simple Examples

See also the [simple usage example](#simple-usage-example) for a trivial use of
`GradBoosting`.

---

> Train a gradient boosting model on mixed categorical data, passing 
> arguments into the Train function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Train a gradient boosting model on mixed categorical data with the
`Train()` function:
```
(I think this is just a little bit of a simpler way to put it.  Up to you if you want to accept the suggestion.)

```c++
// Load a categorical dataset.
arma::mat dataset;
mlpack::data::DatasetInfo info;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.train.arff.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.train.arff", dataset, info, true);

arma::Row<size_t> labels;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.train.labels.csv.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.train.labels.csv", labels, true);

// Create the model object.
mlpack::GradBoosting gb;
// Train on the given dataset, specifying the number of weak learners as 5.
gb.Train(dataset, info, labels, 7 /* classes */, 5 /* number of weak learners */);

// Load categorical test data.
arma::mat testDataset;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.test.arff.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.test.arff", testDataset, true);

// Predict class of first test point.
const size_t firstPrediction = gb.Classify(testDataset.col(0));
std::cout << "Predicted class of first test point is " << firstPrediction << "."
    << std::endl;

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

---

> Train a gradient boosting model on mixed categorical data, passing 
> arguments into the Constructor function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Train a gradient boosting model on mixed categorical data using
the constructor.
```

```c++
// Load a categorical dataset.
arma::mat dataset;
mlpack::data::DatasetInfo info;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.train.arff.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.train.arff", dataset, info, true);

arma::Row<size_t> labels;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.train.labels.csv.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.train.labels.csv", labels, true);

// Create the model object.
mlpack::GradBoosting gb(dataset, info, labels, 
   7 /* classes */, 5 /* number of weak learners */);

// Load categorical test data.
arma::mat testDataset;
// See https://datasets.mlpack.org/covertype.test.arff.
mlpack::data::Load("covertype.test.arff", testDataset, true);

// Predict class of first test point.
const size_t firstPrediction = gb.Classify(testDataset.col(0));
std::cout << "Predicted class of first test point is " << firstPrediction << "."
    << std::endl;

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> ---

Reviewer: Do you think we could add additional examples?  The main things I would want to show would be:

 * Inspect a `DecisionTreeRegressor` (maybe print some information about it, or maybe collect the predictions for each weak learner for a point)
 * Serialize the model to disk (and then load it from disk)
 * Predict points in batch
 * Build a `GradientBoosting` model on data of a different type (e.g. `arma::fmat` or `arma::sp_fmat` or whatever).
